High.
So in this video I want to start taking a look at how Python actually impuls modules and it's actually
relatively simple conceptually.
And then there's some details that are actually quite a bit more complicated.
But what happens when we run a statement like important fractions.
What is Python actually doing.
Well the first thing that we should note is that Python is doing the import at runtime while your code
is actually running right.
We're inside this notebook which is really a running Python environment.
It's a running program.
And so when we write let's say import something then it's doing something dynamically.
Unlike other languages like C for example where modules are compiled and linked ahead of time before
they run those things happen before execution of your actual program.
Here your program is executing.
So it's very dynamic so Python uses a relatively complex system of how to find the modules because that's
actually the more complex part loading the module is actually quite straightforward and we'll actually
see how to do that manually.
Will will basically mimic what Python is doing but we're not going to look into how it finds the files
because that's kind of complicated.
And I will talk about it but we're not going to try and replicate that piece.
So the first thing is we're going to use make heavy use of the CIS module so forth and we're going to
do is import the CIS module and the module has a bunch of things available for example.
Where is python installed.
And so if we look at the prefix This is where we are because we're in this virtual environment that
I've created.
So this is what Python has installed now we're all the C Minories located.
They're going to be located in the same path.
So in this case it's in the same path.
Now we can change prefix and exact prefix.
And in fact that's how virtual environments work.
They essentially change where prefix is.
This is why my prefix is not where my standard Python 3 instillation is.
This is a virtual environment.
So the python binary is the standard library and all that stuff was copied basically to this directory
here and not Python runs from there it's kind of routed at that location.
Now where does Python look for imports.
And this is the piece where it gets complicated because when you import a file Let's say you import
this or you import fractions or you import your own module.
Well it has to know where to find it.
Where does it find it.
It's going to look in the past and the path is just a list of all the directories that are registered
with.
Basically this program as it's running and we can see all these other paths like Python 6 10 a zip file.
The interesting thing with Python is that it can actually reach in the zip archives to grab stuff it
can even run an entire application that's inside a zip archive.
I'll show you how to do that later.
You know we have the deep dive deal as the lib which is where our wrong extended library lives.
We've seen that before.
Ok deep dive.
That's my current directory that's where I'm located right now.
OK.
And so on and there's a bunch of you know other stuff so typically when Python tries to load a module
from a file it will go and look in this path and if you ever run into a problem where you're trying
to import a module and it doesn't find it you should really go and check your source path and see if
the modules path is in that list.
If it's not then you have a problem maybe your installation if it was a third party package fail.
Or maybe you could even and I don't suggest you do that but you can actually hack the system path.
You can append things.
So if you really want to you could write a module in a totally different location and in as long as
you append this path over here it will find that location when you try to import it.
So that's a hack.
I wouldn't recommend doing that.
And there's other ways that we really should handle custom loaders for our modules.
So what does Python do when it tries to import a module Well the first thing it does it checks the CIS
modules cache to see if the modules are already been imported.
If so it just uses the reference that's sitting in that dictionary.
So it doesn't reload which is why if you have the same module imported multiple times because maybe
you have modules that all need to import.
You know math for example.
While math is only going to get you know imported and put into that modules dictionary once.
It's not going to get reimported.
Now there's ways that we can reload the thoughts and I'll show you you know how to do that later.
But I also show you why it's a bad idea to try and do that.
Typically if you're going to do things like that where you're changing a module you know dynamically
the code for a module dynamically you need to reload it.
You're better off restarting the application so if it doesn't find it though in the cache What does
it do.
Well the first thing it does it creates a new module type.
So we've seen this module type before.
So it creates a new instance of a module and it loads the source code from file potentially and we'll
see that it doesn't actually have to come from a file.
I can come from other locations as well.
Then it adds the entry to the cache.
OK.
So as the entry to the cache and then it compiles and executes the source code for the module that it
you know that it loaded from somewhere.
Now one thing that's really important to note is that when a module is imported for the first time anyways
the module code is executed it actually runs that code.
So I'm going to switch over to apply Chelm because it's really difficult to work with multiple modules
inside Jupiter.
So I'm going to switch over to a pie chart but you can switch over to whatever favorite editor you like
or you can also just you know basically use like you know a text editor like vim eMac.
So if you want subline text and you know just compile things from the command line that works perfectly
well as well.
But I'm just going to use pi John.
All right.
So the first thing I'm going into is on created directory.
So we're going to call this example one.
So I'm going to have a few examples in this source file and I'm going to create two files.
I'm going to create a module file so this code module.
Wonder why.
And I'm also going to create a main Doppie way it's going to kind of be my main file.
So what do I want to do in module P1.
So let me just type in the name at the top just so we always have it there it's also in the tab.
But if you're not using an editor like this you may want to just you know put in the name of the file
that you're working on.
All right.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to basically say print it or something like running
well I like that and will format it with this special property Dundon name that's going to be the name
of the module that's running.
So if I run module one we would see Yossef I basically you know invoke it and I render this we would
get running you know whatever the module name is OK.
So I have this module and now I'm going to do what I usually do in a module is I you know I basically
create classes and functions and variables and things like this.
So if I'm going to create a function to pretty print a dictionary because I actually need that to show
you the scopes so I may go ahead and do this so we'll print a few blank lines then we'll print something
like the header that we pass in.
So those it just formatting stuff.
It's really not that complicated.
All I want to do is I want to print a dictionary with one line per entry in the dictionary.
So I'm going to say for the of value in whatever dictionary was passed in and the items then we're just
going to print the key comma the value and I just want some kind of you know separation.
So we'll do that.
And I'll put in a couple of extra spaces here.
OK.
So now we have that.
And what I'm going to do in module one is I'm going to pretty print the Dick
and I want to print the Global's the module one Globex.
OK.
So we're going to do that and then I'm going to finally put something that shows that I've reached the
end you know of the module.
I like that's
OK.
Let's fix that.
So that's my module.
OK.
Quite simple module.
It doesn't do much or defines one function.
And then it has the code in here.
And so if we're to run this it may let me run it.
So if we were to run this you'll notice that we have a bunch of stuff in it ran right it printed out
it said running main.
I'll get to that later why it's not called module one here.
But you can see it there that pretty print on the dictionary and which dictionary my global scope my
global namespace.
Right.
So I have a name which is the main.
I had no docstring package.
I'll get to that later.
Lowder I'll get to that later.
But you can see that it's a source file loader.
And so hopefully you start seeing that this different kinds of load is what could have we could load
from somewhere else.
Built ins for example is a different type of loader.
And then we have our pretty print.
So our pretty print is right here.
And the other thing you'll notice is that there's a dandified property and it tells me which file the
code came from but it came from wherever I am and module wonder why.
OK inside example one folder.
So this runs.
It's a regular module but modules have an execution space they execute.
OK so now let's go over to Main and here.
I'm going to print just like some double lines to show where the main module is going to run.
And I'm going to say print running.
I'm going to call it may end up you are not going to look at and done the double underscore name.
This I will.
But let's say that I'm going to do this.
And you saw why just now when I ran Module 1 What was the module name.
It was that double underscore main and the same thing is going to happen here.
If I run main Now you'll notice that I'm running made up P Y but the module name is double underscore
main and we'll come back and revisit Maine in some detail because there's some actually kind of interesting
things about it.
But basically whenever you run a file whatever that folly is that's the starting point the name gets
renamed to double underscore main to the main and so there's things that we can leverage with that.
All right.
So I have that multi-mode.
And what I want to do here is I'm going to import module one right.
I have my module one now I'm going to print.
Well let me run the import first.
OK so now let's go ahead and run this.
So remember what module one is doing.
OK.
It is going to print running.
OK we saw that when we ran module 1 we saw what we got right.
We got.
Let me show you again.
OK we got that.
It was running main and then it printed out this dictionary module Global's and then a printed end of
the main.
All right.
Now let me show you what happens when I run main instead which is this thing here and it only thing
it does it has three print statements and one impled
K..
Let's take a look while you'll notice that it said running.
Main module name Dondre main.
So that's the thing because I started running main.
I basically ran main.
It's module name became dhanda mean not.
It didn't stay as made up.
Why then look at what happened.
We had import module one so important ORGILL one ran.
It was executed.
And so what happened with it was executed is that it printed this thing forced and it printed the module
name.
Now in this case because module one wasn't actually the the module that was run initially its name remains.
Module 1.
So now we're running Module 1.
Then what do I do.
I define this function that's going to go into that Global's.
Right.
And then I'm going to print the Global's out.
So again remember this code is just running just as if we had run it directly.
But now it's running via an import.
So here we go.
It prints out the Global's.
OK.
And we've got all the stuff we've got the file.
All right it tells us again where this module came from.
There was no documents you know docstring.
And here's our pretty print function that's in that dictionary.
OK.
So that's what happens when you import a module that runs the module.
Now let's see what happens if I print module one because now I have this label right.
Module one we've seen that before but I've got this label module one in my global scope so I can print
it out and see what is python.
Tell me about it and it tells me that this module its name is module one and it came from this file.
Now we can also look at the Global's So let me go ahead and say module 1 dot p print.
Right.
Because I've imported module once and I can copy print from module one it knows what module one is and
module one has this pre-print dict in its global dictionary so I can call it this way and I'm going
to say main Global's so I'm going to print out the main Global's.
And let's see what's in the main Global's.
So in the mango obols right.
We don't have a whole lot it's not like the Jupiter notebook but loads a ton of extra stuff in there.
But we do have the name and as you can see the name was renamed to double underscore Maine not Maine.
And then we have our module one.
OK.
That's put into the global cache into the global namespace so module module one again same thing.
But I do want to show you that we if we import this now by the way this is kind of considered bad style
putting imports you know at various places.
So it really should go to the top of the file and that's what I'm going to do.
I didn't put this at the top of the file because I wanted to show you that the code for module one doesn't
actually run until I hit this point here this impled.
So that's why when we ran this we first got our print statements right.
These these two print statements we printed that double you know those those equal signs and then we
printed the you know running maned up the Y.
So I just wanted to point that out and that's why I put the model over here.
If I were to put the import up here then the module would get executed before we get these print statements.
So that's why I'm putting it down here and here I'm just being Peppi defined by pie and that's telling
me on the import should be at the top of the file.
And generally it's considered better style to do so because it's easy for someone to go in and see all
the imports that you're doing but you don't have to.
You can import wherever you want and all it's doing is just basically executing that code and putting
it into cash somewhere.
So speaking of that we've got this let me print this dark path for us.
So let's run this and you'll see what the system pathways.
It contains all these different paths where it's going to look for the impulse.
And in this case it's going to find my module one in this path right here.
And so it's going to loaded from there.
That's how it knew where to find it because it's not in this location here right.
It's not in this location over here.
Right.
It's a none of these other locations.
So it has to find it somewhere and found it over here.
And we'll come back to this bath later.
And then the last thing I want to show you is that we can Prince's thoughts modules and we can ask to
see well what's module one.
That's that system cache that we have.
And let's go ahead and see.
And as you can see it printed this out over here which was the same thing as when we printed the model
one from our global namespace.
So now if I was to import module one again and we put that in the import module once again and let's
take all this out and I'll take all that out and I'll take that out.
I'm just going to import module twice.
OK.
And here I'm just going to say print importing module one again.
Right.
So now if we run this you'll see that OK we get our regular thing that ran right.
We imported module one it ran all this code and did all the prints right.
And of module one.
And then we printed importing module one again which is this line of code and then we did the impled.
And what happened.
Nothing right.
All that happened is that it looked in the cache and it said oh it's already there.
I don't have to re execute this.
It's already there.
Here it is.
In fact what you could do is I could even remove module one because module one is in my global namespace
so I could say delete Global's module one.
OK.
Now if I try and say module one odd dot print that say main dog Global's main dot Global's and will
print the globose dictionary and let me comment that out for a second you'll notice that pide Chelm
isn't complaining.
It's saying OK fine but if you think about this what's module one now it doesn't.
No this is no longer in my namespace.
So if I try and run this I'm going to get this runtime exception.
It's going to tell me no I don't know what module one is for sure because I didn't import it while I
did import it.
So it's in that cache but it's not in my global namespace.
So now to fix this once I've deleted it which doesn't do anything other than delete the symbol and the
reference to the object from the namespace it doesn't remove the object from memory or anything like
that.
That object that module still exists in memory and it's full reference by the system modules cache.
So now if I re-imported here all it's going to do is it's going to go and look for it in the sist modules.
It's already there.
It's going to bring in.
It's just going to bring that reference back into my global namespace.
In this module and now I can reference that again.
So let's try that and has no peepin because it's Copi predict.
So that was OK.
And there you go.
It worked just fine.
So be careful.
The import is something that does some stuff and basically it puts that module they create into that
system modules it creates the object in memory and then it sets that reference you know inside tracks
that reference inside the system modules.
When we then import it later from anywhere all it does is it takes that symbol name and adds to our
global namespace and then puts the same reference the same you know object reference for that.
OK an example number two we're going to see that when we import a module Python force looks for it in
the system modules.
I think I kind of showed you that already.
An example number one but I'm going to make this even more explicit and to make that point I'm going
to hack sists modules and I'm going to put a key value in there myself and then I'm going to import
it and I'm going to show you that that's going to work.
Now please don't do this.
I'm just trying to make the point that when you import it false looks in the cache and then immediately
returns that object if the name is found doesn't care what that object is.
It just returns it.
So what I'm going to do essentially is I'm going to.
You don't set.
Go to my sis modules and set a key test and I'm going to put a function into it.
OK.
So we can do it right here.
So I can say cist modules test.
Is that OK.
Now I can import test.
What is it going to do.
It's going to go and look for test in the modules and it found it.
What did it get.
It got my lander.
And in fact I can call it right.
So this is kind of very hacky don't do that.
This just shows you that when you import all it's doing if it already exists in the modules it just
returns whatever object is in the value of that item at that key test.
So now in the third example we're going to split that into two and we're going to look at a simplified
view of how Python actually imports a module and we're going to make use of two built in functions called
compile and exec and you can find information on that on line in the documentation.
But basically there's two steps that we have to do in order to run a piece of Python code.
We have to compile it and then we have to execute it.
So the compilation is done by the compiled function and it basically takes souls for example a string
write or text from a file.
It takes some source code and it compiles that into Python bytecode into a code object that contains
the python bytecode.
Now we can use the exec function to execute that code object.
We could actually also use exec directly on a string but it's going to have to do the compilation phase.
Anyway here we're going to separate them into two different steps.
So we're going to execute that code basically.
But we're also going to specify whether it should store the global symbols because as the code is running
if I set a variable equals 10 it's got to put a in some dictionary somewhere in a namespace so we can
actually tell the exec function which namespace to use.
So in this case we're going to use our modules Dunder ditt property.
So we're going to use that as our namespace because that's where the namespace should be.
So let's go ahead and write a new directory.
Let's call this example 3:8.
And in this directory we're going to create two Python files.
I'm going to say maned up p y.
And we're also going to create a I'm going to call this I don't want to call the module one because
I don't want you to think that there's something magical going about you know about the name thing.
Cause I'm not going to use the python impled so I'm going to call it module one source.
OK.
So these are my two files.
And let's close everything else.
Action is just cause everything.
And let's talk with Module 1 souls.
So module one source and let's call this module wonder why it's just going to say this.
It's going to say running module one p y.
So we're going to actually execute code in that module print and then it's going to define one function
and the function is basically going to do something very simple.
It's going to say module one says hello.
OK.
We could say module one yeah.
Module one says hello.
That's it.
That is our module One source code.
Now let's switch over to Main and let's see what we're going to do there.
Well the first thing is I'm going to need a few libraries so I'm going to import overstuff path.
I'm going to import types.
I'm going to need type school I'm going to create a module and I also need this because I need to load
the module up into the CIS modules and I need the path simply because I want to be able to you know
find the OR is build a path up to locate module one source on the disk.
And again that's you know typically Actually the more complex step of trying to find where that source
code file is located.
So we're going to basically import module one manually we're going to do this by hand.
So first thing you need is a module name what's the name of the module going to be.
Now doesn't have to match the file name in this case because I'm going to do this manually.
Typically the file name is the module name.
OK.
So here I'm going to set my module name to what I want I need to specify Now the file.
Where can we find this far because we going need to load the source code up so it's so close that right
could be anything in this case it was module one underscore songs to the p y and my module path.
It's going to be just the current path.
OK so I'm running Impey why I'm going to look for module one source in the same path.
So that's that the next thing that I need to do is I want to build up the paths.
And I just want to do it here.
LOL easier to then read.
So we're going to use always path dobbed join
and module path.
We're going to join the module path with the module file.
Now that's a relative path though.
But I also want to get an absolute file paths.
So I'm going to create my absolute file path by using OS path that Abz path method where I pass in the
relative quiet back.
OK.
So that's it.
So now what I need to do is I need to read the cells code from file.
I can type this morning.
OK so I need to read the source code from file.
So very simple.
We're going to open the file so we're going to say we're going to look at.
I don't I can just use the relative file path I could use the absolute file path.
I want to do I'll just use the relative one that will work fine and I'm going to open that up as code
file and I'm basically just going to read the entire file into a variable called sourcecode.
So that's my source code.
Now what do I want to do.
Well now I want to create a module object while we've seen how to do that before.
So I'm going to call this module maade let's say equals types docked module type
and what module type expects is the name and optional docstring.
I'm just going to specify the name while the name was module name.
So now we have a module created and the only other thing that I want to do is actually want to set the
location.
Where did this thing come from.
What is the file.
And this is why I wanted the absolute path because I want to specify the absolute file path for where
the code for this module came from.
OK.
All right.
So now we've got that the next thing we need to do is to set a reference insist modules What is this
modules.
It's a dictionary.
So it's very simple to set the reference.
I'm just going to say six modules.
Now what do I want the key to be.
I want the key to be the module name so module underscore name.
That's the key.
Equals what.
Well the module I just created now it's an empty module it doesn't have anything right now but I'm going
to put it in the modules dictionary.
And now we're going to complete the modules set up.
So we have to compile the source code and that's pretty simple.
We're going to basically create a code object by saying compile we're going to tell it what we want
to compile.
This is the you know this is the source code we want to compile.
We're going to tell it the file name as well.
Again it's not the it's not going to go back and read this.
This is just method data information.
So you're saying the code came from this location and then the last thing is that I need to set the
mode to exec and basically the mode here is just saying I'm compiling code that actually you know has
multiple lines of code basically because there's other things you can do.
It's as if it's a single line of code things like that you can change that.
In this case just Molik calls exec.
You can read the documentation on that.
It's not terribly important.
We're always going to use modals exec.
OK so now with compile the source code the source code is being compiled.
That's how simple it was to compiled code compiled.
The next thing though is we need to execute.
Right.
The module not the compiled source code because at this point it's just compiled but it hasn't run yet.
And we need the module to run so that it's going to create that you know pretty print dict function
it's going to have its name space and all that stuff.
Now the name space already exists because name maade has a double underscore dict has a dandy dict property
right.
Because that's what happens when we have this when we create a module it creates that for us.
So now though we need to execute the code how do we do that.
Well would just say exact code.
Now we do need to tell.
And we can't tell it where we want the global stuff to go.
So when it executes the code it's going to need to create a namespace.
Right because it's executing code the code may contain something like Def print or a equals 10.
Well those need to be stored somewhere in some namespace in some dictionary.
So we need to tell it but which dictionary do we want to use.
Because we want it to go to the standard dict property of mind of the module.
We're building our model up and that's going to be it for the module we do we need to do any kind of
thing of installing some compiled code into the module.
Well that's exactly what we're doing here because remember what is the module.
It's nothing more than a namespace It's a dictionary that contains symbols like for example a.
And then whatever it corresponds to 10 or maybe the symbol is pre-print dict and then the value will
be the memory address of pre-print dict.
OK.
And this is exactly what this is going to do it's going to run the code it's going to create all that
and it's going to put into the dictionary.
All those things that were created in Module 1.
So in this case.
Hello.
Right hello is going to go into the global dictionary that we specify here which is this global dictionary.
So at this point that's it we're done.
Bryant we're done.
It's important it's been created.
We have a module that's been created and it's been put into the system cache into the system modules.
So now we can you know we can call it we can say not hello.
Well we have a regular module right.
Maade was this one so we can call it now.
This just go ahead and run that and make sure it worked.
And let's see.
Well I've got to run this one.
I'll write.
So here's what happened.
Running Module 1.
When did that occur.
That occurred when we did the exec.
Right.
If I take this out and with you I take that out and take that out and rerun this.
You'll notice that it doesn't do anything doesn't print anything up because we didn't execute the module.
So once we execute the module then we get that.
All right.
So we executed the module it said running module one up.
Why.
OK.
Running module wonder why it executed Module 1 part of its execution was running this piece of code.
Def hello.
Hello was created and the hello symbol was put into the global namespace and to that dictionary and
the value was just the memory address of the function that was created when this code ran and which
dictionary.
It actually went into this when we specifically said go into this dictionary.
Which means now that we can call more of hello it's going to look for it in there but we can also do
the following not because remember we added the module to CIS modules.
So now we could actually do this we could say ampoules module one.
And then I could say module one dot.
Hello.
I don't have to do that.
I don't have to do it this way.
I can do it this way.
So what's what's PI Chong complaining about it saying there's no module named Munjal one wall.
Yeah.
Do you see a module one in here.
Nope.
So it's basically trying to look for it.
It's trying to do what Python does and look for the module and it's saying well I can find it.
Fair enough.
It's not around because it's in this file name called module one underscores souls.
So that's what I want to show you is that if I didn't have all this code over here let me comment all
that out and now let me run main.
OK which is really just import module one but it's going to say No module one named module one.
Right.
Couldn't find it.
All right so now let's just uncommented that stuff.
And now let's run it again and see what happens.
Rende just fine.
Why.
Because now when I said import module one python doesn't know that I plug module one into the system
modules.
But when Python is running it knows it looks in the syste modules and it finds module one.
So it just returns the reference to that.
So now I have my module just as if I had maade like you know like I had the full model Hello.
It's the same object model and module one of the same objects.
The only difference is that when I said import module one it went and looked for it in the CIS modules
cache.
OK so now what we're going to do with the next example is we're essentially going to take example 3:8
but we're going to make an importer into a function and we're going to use it to show how we could you
know technically we should look for a cached volume version of the module thost.
Right so I just want to show you that the extra step that we don't have so far is the look up in the
cache first before we go ahead and do this you know compile and execute and then put it into the cache.
So I'm going to make a new directory let's call it for example 3 B.
And again here.
I'm going to make a new file called named upby why.
But actually yeah we'll make maned up.
Why.
I'm actually also now going to make another file called imported ish.
So I got my imported IPY.
I'm also going to create a module one
souls top winds or just like we had before.
And I'm also going to create a module too.
And I'm going to show you that because what I want to do is in module 2 I want to use impled module
one all right.
Just like we had in our main example here.
Import module what.
I just want to show you that it has nothing to do with the fact that it was inside the main file module
too.
I'm going to say import module one.
OK.
But of course module one doesn't exist as a file.
So it's not going to go through the regular process but we're going to import module one inside our
main by calling the function our own function to import module one that's going to base itself off of
module one source.
So sounds complicated but it's not the first thing we need to do is to write our importers.
So I'm just going to go back to the main file that we had over here or just copy the whole thing and
pasted right into here.
Now let's start changing things.
First of all this is called imports.
We're still going to need all these things.
We're not going to need all this because that's going to come we're going to define a function now basically.
So let's go ahead and just say it.
So let's write a function called impled underscore.
So I differentiate that from the regular built in impled.
So import underscore.
And what do I want in my import.
Underscore Well all these things over here.
Right.
So I want the module name I want the module file and I want the module path and let's fix that up.
OK.
So this is my function.
So I don't need this anymore.
That's going to come as parameters.
I still need though to build my relative and absolute file paths.
OK.
So I still need to do that.
I still need to read the source code from a file that doesn't change.
I still need to create a module that doesn't change.
I still need to set the reference in modules.
I still need to compile it.
I still need to execute it.
The only difference now is that I'm going to return and I'm going to return it by basically just looking
for the module in cist modules.
So what module am I looking for.
I'm looking for module name because that was the name of the module.
OK so we're almost done.
Well we're almost there.
But one thing that we're missing is really checking in the cist modules for us before we do this whole
thing over here.
So that's going to be very simple.
So that's all I want to do.
I just want to say if module name in this module so it fits.
If it is in that dictionary just return that the return s'est modules module name.
So we bail out right away.
We don't try and recompile and you'll reload the source file compile it execute it.
We don't need to do all that stuff.
It's already been created right.
So you can think of this imposter almost like a lazy load.
It's saying OK well if it's not in the SR modules go ahead and create it and then return it.
That's why I'm saying this looks very much like a lazy kind of loading but that's something else and
that has more to do with packages and we'll talk about that later as well.
OK that's all report written.
We've got that done.
Now let's go ahead and write our main file.
So his main P Why would I want to do.
Well I'm going to import this and I'm also not going to import importer's.
So now if we run that we get nothing right.
So let me go ahead and put a print statement print running and pull it up.
Why.
All right.
And we close all that stuff and just bring up the ones that we're interested in.
OK.
So now let me run this again and you can see running importer's right.
It ran.
Why.
Because we did impled importer which means it you know ran this.
So now the next step that I want to do is I want to import module one.
But using our own importer's.
So I would do it this way.
I need a reference to that modules.
I'm going to call it module 1 because that's what I want to call it and I'm going to make it simple.
I'm going to call importer's docs import underscore.
Now I'm using our function.
OK.
I'm using the one that we just created in the import of multihull that we wrote.
So what I want to do here is well I wanted to create a module module one remember the module name was
that the module file is a module one underscore and so I'll start.
P Why.
Right it's going to come from this file over here.
This module one souls and which directory.
It's just the current directory.
So that should now load up our module one source create a module call it module one input into the cache.
Let's see what happens if we just run this and everything seems to work.
What I can do in Module 1 souls which is empty right now.
Let's go ahead and actually put some stuff in it.
So we're going to keep it very simple.
We're going to say print running module wonder why it's actually the same as if we've just had in the
previous example.
And one is going to print here say module one says hello.
OK.
So this is our module one.
So let's run this again now.
So we're going to run our main again which is going to do our custom importer.
And now you can see running module 1.
Will that happen.
Why.
Because importer executed that code.
All right.
So far so good.
What's next.
Well the thing that we should look out is probably in the system modules.
And let's just see if it's in the modules it should be.
Let's go ahead and say that Sprint system has more to say.
So this is going to say Big Sis docs modules doffed get.
What are we going to look for.
We're going to look for module 1 which is our module name.
Okay.
And if it doesn't find it it should just say module 1 not from.
So that's why I'm using a get a dictionary look up but I'm using the Get approach so I can give it a
default if it doesn't find it.
So let's go ahead and see what happens.
There we go it found it says says module module one from this.
OK.
So it knows it came from the source because we told it right in the importer we set this whole thing.
The mob the file.
Ok we set that up so it knows where it came from.
So now of course we can go ahead and that module one exists in six modules so we can go ahead now in
module 2 and we can say import module 1.
Now why jam doesn't know about Module 1 it's still complaining saying well I don't know what that is.
Sure.
Because all that was done in our code so it doesn't know what happened.
But Python when it runs will find module one in the CIS models.
So let's go ahead and add some code to module 2.
And before I do the impulse again I'm going to get people to fight on this one.
Say running module to it.
Why.
Because I want to show you the older in which things happen.
So running module to tell you why I'm going to import module one.
OK.
And then I'm just going to define another Hello functioning and I'm going to say print module to says
hello and wondering and we're going to call module one hello function
so what are we doing here.
We're going to import module one.
Now we're going to see if you remember when module one gets imploded the first time what does it do.
It's going to print on running module 1.
We're going to see if running this import again is going to rerun module one or not.
It shouldn't because it's in the cache but we did our own import here we're using Python's import our
Are the two compatible.
You know did we do things correctly.
So let's go ahead now and run this.
And of course in main Doppie why I need to import module 2.
And then I'm going to call module 2.
Hello.
OK.
So again it's complaining that hey it's not at the top level on the thing.
All right.
So let's go ahead and run this let's see what happens.
So what do we get running.
Importer's Well that's because the importer ran bright because we imported imported right here.
So that.
So nothing has changed so far.
Right we still have sists says OK.
Now we do our import module too.
And as you can see our output here is running module 2.
That's because in module 2 we had this print statement.
So we get that output in the console.
The next thing is we called Muldrew module 2. hello.
But before that happened this happened the import module one.
And you'll notice that there is nothing printed between those two lines.
It didn't print running module 1 the way it did the first time.
So that's good.
That means that Python actually went and grabbed module one from the cist modules and just returned
it.
And now it's like any other module that you know would have been imported via Python's import statement.
So now we can access it as normal module.
Hello submodule 2. Hello calls this function which says module 2 says hello.
There we go.
And and then it calls the hello in Module 1 because we just imported it and module one says hello.
So that's the basics of how module importing works in Python it's actually really really straightforward
conceptual where it gets more difficult is where the code comes from because Python is pretty flexible
in that respect.
The code could actually be in a source file the way that we usually do when we write our Python projects
but that source file could be put to for example located in the zip file and Python can reach into a
zip file and grab the source code from there.
In fact if I show you this let me go ahead and bring up a python console and here I'm going to install
this and I'm going to look at this path and you'll notice right here that we have Python 3:6 dot zip.
It's actually a zip file but it can look inside that zip file.
So what you'll find is that the way the importer works is that it first looks to see OK what's going
to handle the import file getting the code.
It's going to get it from somewhere.
So either sales could be from a zip file.
You can also create really you know write your own importer's you can write let's say a handler a hook
essentially where you can go and retrieve code from a database and imported from there.
So you can do all kinds of weird things like that.
I'm not going to get into that.
It's really not common and it's useful to know that you can do that.
But if you really want to know how to do that then just go look up at the documentation.
There's a lot of good explanations on that YouTube ton of videos.
You know the perps also have all that.
So I'm not going to get into that.
So the most difficult pounde is where it's going to get the source code from could be built in.
Well that's another location that it can get things from.
So but after that it's the same process.
It's you know put the module create the module object put it into the system modules you know compile
it execute it done and that's it.
All right.
So thanks for watching and we'll continue this conversation in the next video.